# Wine-deployment
deploying the wine quality data.
The red wine industry shows a recent exponential growth as social drinking is on the rise. Nowadays, industry players are using product quality certifications to promote their products. This is a time-consuming process and requires the assessment given by human experts, which makes this process very expensive. Also, the price of red wine depends on a rather abstract concept of wine appreciation by wine tasters, opinion among whom may have a high degree of variability. Another vital factor in red wine certification and quality assessment is physicochemical tests, which are laboratory-based and consider factors like acidity, pH level, sugar, and other chemical properties. The red wine market would be of interest if the human quality of tasting can be related to wine’s chemical properties so that certification and quality assessment and assurance processes are more controlled. This project aims to determine which features are the best quality red wine indicators and generate insights into each of these factors to our model’s red wine quality.
My first step was to clean and prepare the data for analysis. I went through different steps of data cleaning. First, I checked the data types focusing on numerical and categorical to simplify the correlation’s computation and visualization. Second, I tried to identify any missing values existing in our data set. Last, I researched each column/feature’s statistical summary to detect any problem like outliers and abnormal distributions.

Data Exploration and Transformation

To see which variables are likely to affect the quality of red wine the most, I ran a correlation analysis of our independent variables against our dependent variable, quality. This analysis ended up with a list of variables of interest that had the highest correlations with quality.

Three different patterns can be observed. First, there are positive relationships between quality and critic.acid, alcohol, and sulphates. Even though wines with a higher level of alcohol may make them less popular, they should be highly rated in quality. Second, there are negative relationships between quality and volatile.acidity, density, and pH. It is reasonable that less sweet wines and a lower level of acidity are favored in quality testings. Last, these independent variables show no significant relationship with quality: residual.sugar, chlorides, and total.sulfur.dioxide.
